ADR for APIRule in version v1beta2 (#963)
kyma-project/api-gateway: docs/user/custom-resources/apigateway/apigateway-v1beta2-adr.md

| **corsPolicy.allowCredentials** |  **NO**   | Specifies whether credentials are allowed in the **Access-Control-Allow-Credentials** CORS header.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| **corsPolicy.exposeHeaders**    |  **NO**   | Specifies headers exposed with the **Access-Control-Expose-Headers** CORS header.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **corsPolicy.maxAge**           |  **NO**   | Specifies the maximum age of CORS policy cache. The value is provided in the **Access-Control-Max-Age** CORS header.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

> | **host**                        |  **YES**  | Specifies the Service's communication address for inbound external traffic. If only the leftmost label is provided, the default domain name will be used.                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: I think this needs to be hosts. Also the description needs to be updated. I think would be good to be more specific about what values are allowed here. As far as I remember we didn't wan to allow * wildcard.

| **rules.service**               |  **NO**   | Services definitions at this level have higher precedence than the Service definition at the **spec.service** level.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **rules.path**                  |  **YES**  | Specifies the path of the exposed Service.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **rules.methods**               |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of HTTP request methods available for **spec.rules.path**. The list of supported methods is defined in [RFC 9910: HTTP Semantics](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html) and [RFC 5789: PATCH Method for HTTP](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5789.html).                                                        |

> | **rules.mutators**              |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of the Istio mutators.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: Do we need to be more specific about this? What mutators will be supported?

| **rules.accessStrategies**      |  **YES**  | Specifies the list of access strategies. Supported are `no_auth`, `extAuth` and `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy.                                                                                                                                                      |
| **rules.timeout**               |  **NO**   | Specifies the timeout, in seconds, for HTTP requests made to **spec.rules.path**. The maximum timeout is limited to 3900 seconds (65 minutes). Timeout definitions set at this level take precedence over any timeout defined at the **spec.timeout** level.                                                                                 |

### Examples

- Multiple hosts with external authorizer:
```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - api1.example.com
    - api2.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]

>       mutators:

Reviewer: Is there a reason why we add the mutators in the examples? For me it looks like they are not relevant for the examples and we should rather have more concrete examples with mutators if we want to add them.

          name: oauth2-proxy
          restrictions:
            authentications:
              - issuer: https://example.com
                jwksUri: https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json            
            authorizations:
              - audiences: ["app1"]
```

- One host with jwt:
```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - app1.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      mutators:
        - ***
      accessStrategy:
        jwt:
          authentications:
            - issuer: https://example.com
              jwksUri: https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json            
          authorizations:
            - audiences: ["app1"]
```

- One host with noAuth:
```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - app1.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      mutators:
        - ***
      accessStrategy:

>         noAuth: true

Reviewer: Just for discussion: with a config like that, we would need to make a breaking change if we ever want to add `noAuth` specific fields. But we probably don't have anything on the horizon and want to keep noAuth as simple as possible.

| **timeout**                     |  **NO**   | Specifies the timeout for HTTP requests in seconds for all Access Rules. The value can be overridden for each Access Rule. </br> If no timeout is specified, the default timeout of 180 seconds applies.                                                                                                                                     | The maximum timeout is limited to 3900 seconds (65 minutes).                                                                                                                                                                     | 

> | **noAuth**                      |  **NO**   | Setting `noAuth` to `true` disables authorization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 2: shouldn't `noAuth` be on `rules` level ?

Reviewer 2: e.g. having it described as `rules.noAuth`

| **rules.mutators**              |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of the request mutators.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Currently, the `Headers` and `Cookie` mutators are supported. For more information, see the [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/blob/main/docs/user/custom-resources/apirule/04-40-apirule-mutators.md). |

> | **rules.accessStrategies**      |  **YES**  | Specifies the list of access strategies.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Supported are `extAuth` and `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy.                                                                                              |

Reviewer 2: is it `accessStrategies` or `accessStrategy` as in the examples below?

### Examples

- Multiple hosts with external authorizers:
```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - api1.example.com
    - api2.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategy:
        extAuth:
          - name: oauth2-proxy
            restrictions:
              authentications:
                - issuer: https://example.com
                  jwksUri: https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json            
              authorizations:
                - audiences: ["app1"]
          - name: geo-blocker
```

- One host with jwt:
```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - app1.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]

>       accessStrategy:

Reviewer 2: mixture of `jwt` and `extAuth` allowed? can you have more than one `jwt`s and/or `extAuth`s ? validation?

Author: It's not allowed, that's why it's not a list and the name is now singular.

        jwt:
          authentications:
            - issuer: https://example.com
              jwksUri: https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json            
          authorizations:
            - audiences: ["app1"]
```

- One host with noAuth:
```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - app1.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]

>       noAuth: true

Reviewer 2: what happens if you define `accessStrategies` in here? shouldn't we describe the case when you mix-up `noAuth` + `jwt` / `extAuth` ?

| **rules.service**               |  **NO**   | Services definitions at this level have higher precedence than the Service definition at the **spec.service** level.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **rules.path**                  |  **YES**  | Specifies the path of the exposed Service.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **rules.methods**               |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of HTTP request methods available for **spec.rules.path**. The list of supported methods is defined in [RFC 9910: HTTP Semantics](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html) and [RFC 5789: PATCH Method for HTTP](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5789.html).                                                        |

> | **rules.mutators**              |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of the Istio mutators. Currently, the `Headers` and `Cookie` mutators are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: I think we not call them "Istio mutators". I think they are more "request mutators". Adding a link to the existing mutators configuration can help to make clear what those mutators are.

> | **rules.accessStrategies**      |  **YES**  | Specifies the list of access strategies. Supported are `no_auth`, `extAuth` and `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy.                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: Here no_auth is still part of the access strategies, but in the noAuth example it is a field on the rule level. 
We need to update it here as well. Remove it from access strategies and add it to the rule-level.

| **rules.timeout**               |  **NO**   | Specifies the timeout, in seconds, for HTTP requests made to **spec.rules.path**. The maximum timeout is limited to 3900 seconds (65 minutes). Timeout definitions set at this level take precedence over any timeout defined at the **spec.timeout** level.                                                                                 |

> ### Validation

Reviewer: How about adding at as a column to the table and add validation rules that are relevant for the fields. We sometimes have them in the description (e.g. timeout)and I think this is not so easy to consume.

| **rules.noAuth**                 |  **NO**   | Setting `noAuth` to `true` disables authorization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | When `noAuth` is set to true, there cannot be any access strategy defined                                                                                                                                                        |

> | **rules.accessStrategy**         |  **NO**   | Specifies the access strategy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Supported are `extAuth` or `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy.                                                                                               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **rules.accessStrategy**         |  **NO**   | Specifies the access strategy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Supported are either `extAuth` **or** `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy.                                                                                               |
```

> | **rules.accessStrategy.extAuth** |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of external authorizers. For more information see the [External Authorizer ADR](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/issues/938).                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 2: can we prepare a page or section for `extAuth` providing the documentation / spec similar to this one? since now it is fully typed, we should specify full spec for the v1beta2.

> | **rules.accessStrategy.jwt**     |  **NO**   | Specifies the Istio JWT access strategy. For more information see the [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/blob/main/docs/user/custom-resources/apirule/04-20-apirule-istio-jwt-access-strategy.md).                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 2: this has to be changed, in v1beta1 we have it as `RawExtension` handler and fields are under config. for v1beta2 this looks different. It will be nicer if we have it fully described in a similar fashion like this one in a table with all fields described.

> # APIRule v1beta2 API proposal

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# APIRule `v1beta2` API Proposal
```

Date: 2024-03-22

## Status

- Proposed: 22.03.2024

## Context

> Due to deprecation of Ory and new features in api-gateway, next version of APIRule resource needs to be defined.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Due to the deprecation of Ory and the introduction of new features in API Gateway, the next version of APIRule resource needs to be defined.
```

| **corsPolicy.maxAge**            |  **NO**   | Specifies the maximum age of CORS policy cache. The value is provided in the **Access-Control-Max-Age** CORS header.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | **hosts**                        |  **YES**  | Specifies the Service's communication address for inbound external traffic. If only the leftmost label is provided, the default domain name will be used.                                                                                                                                                                                    | Full domain name or the leftmost label. Cannot contain  the wildcard character `*`.                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **hosts**                        |  **YES**  | Specifies the Service's communication address for inbound external traffic. If only the leftmost label is provided, the default domain name is used.                                                                                                                                                                                    | The full domain name or the leftmost label cannot contain the wildcard character `*`.                                                                                                                                              |
```

| **rules.mutators**               |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of the request mutators.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Currently, the `Headers` and `Cookie` mutators are supported. For more information, see the [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/blob/main/docs/user/custom-resources/apirule/04-40-apirule-mutators.md). |

> | **rules.noAuth**                 |  **NO**   | Setting `noAuth` to `true` disables authorization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | When `noAuth` is set to true, there cannot be any access strategy defined                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **rules.noAuth**                 |  **NO**   | Setting `noAuth` to `true` disables authorization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | When `noAuth` is set to true, it is not allowed to define any other access strategy.                                                                                                                                                       |
```

> | **rules.accessStrategy**         |  **NO**   | Specifies the access strategy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Supported are either `extAuth` **or** `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy.                                                                                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **rules.accessStrategy**         |  **NO**   | Specifies the access strategy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Supported are either `extAuth` or `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy.                                                                                    |
```

| **rules.accessStrategy.extAuth** |  **NO**   | Specifies the list of external authorizers. For more information see below and the [External Authorizer ADR](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/issues/938).                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | **rules.accessStrategy.jwt**     |  **NO**   | Specifies the Istio JWT access strategy. For more information see below and the [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/blob/main/docs/user/custom-resources/apirule/04-20-apirule-istio-jwt-access-strategy.md).                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **rules.accessStrategy.jwt**     |  **NO**   | Specifies the Istio JWT access strategy. For more information see [JWT Access Strategy](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/blob/main/docs/user/custom-resources/apirule/04-20-apirule-istio-jwt-access-strategy.md) and the bellow table.                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
```

| **rules.timeout**                |  **NO**   | Specifies the timeout, in seconds, for HTTP requests made to **spec.rules.path**. Timeout definitions set at this level take precedence over any timeout defined at the **spec.timeout** level.                                                                                                                                              | The maximum timeout is limited to 3900 seconds (65 minutes).                                                                                                                                                                     |

**External Authorizer Access Strategy:**

| Field                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                              |
|:-----------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **name**                     | Specifies the external authorizer name.                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **name**                     | Specifies the name of the external authorizer.                                                                                                                                                  |
```

> | **authentications**          | Specifies the list of authentications objects.                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications**          | Specifies the list of authentication objects.                                                                                                                                           |
```

| **authentications.issuer**   | Identifies the issuer that issued the JWT. <br/>The value must be an URL. Although HTTP is allowed, it is recommended that you use only HTTPS endpoints.                                 |

> | **authentications.jwksUri**  | URL of the provider’s public key set to validate the signature of the JWT. <br/>The value must be an URL. Although HTTP is allowed, it is recommended that you use only HTTPS endpoints. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications.jwksUri**  | Contains the URL of the provider’s public key set to validate the signature of the JWT. <br/>The value must be a URL. Although HTTP is allowed, it is recommended that you use only HTTPS endpoints. |
```

> | **authorizations**           | List of authorization objects.                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authorizations**           | Specifies the list of authorization objects.                                                                                                                                                           |
```

> | **authorizations.audiences** | List of audiences required for the JWT.                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authorizations.audiences** | Specifies the list of audiences required for the JWT.                                                                                                                                                  |
```

**JWT Access Strategy:**

| Field                                  | Mandatory | Description                                                                                                                                                                              |
|:---------------------------------------|:----------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **authentications**                    | **YES**   | List of authentication objects.                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications**                    | **YES**   | Specifies the list of authentication objects.                                                                                                                                                          |
```

> | **authentications.issuer**             | **YES**   | Identifies the issuer that issued the JWT. <br/>The value must be an URL. Although HTTP is allowed, it is recommended that you use only HTTPS endpoints.                                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications.issuer**             | **YES**   | Identifies the issuer that issued the JWT. <br/>The value must be a URL. Although HTTP is allowed, it is recommended that you use only HTTPS endpoints.                                 |
```

> | **authentications.jwksUri**            | **YES**   | URL of the provider’s public key set to validate the signature of the JWT. <br/>The value must be an URL. Although HTTP is allowed, it is recommended that you use only HTTPS endpoints. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications.jwksUri**            | **YES**   | Contains the URL of the provider’s public key set to validate the signature of the JWT. <br/>The value must be a URL. Although HTTP is allowed, it is recommended that you use only HTTPS endpoints. |
```

> | **authentications.fromHeaders**        | **NO**    | List of headers from which the JWT token is taken.                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications.fromHeaders**        | **NO**    | Specifies the list of headers from which the JWT token is extracted.                                                                                                                                       |
```

> | **authentications.fromHeaders.name**   | **YES**   | Name of the header.                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications.fromHeaders.name**   | **YES**   | Specifies the name of the header.                                                                                                                                                                      |
```

> | **authentications.fromHeaders.prefix** | **NO**    | Prefix used before the JWT token. The default is `Bearer `.                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications.fromHeaders.prefix** | **NO**    | Specifies the prefix used before the JWT token. The default is `Bearer `.                                                                                                                              |
```

> | **authentications.fromParams**         | **NO**    | List of parameters from which the JWT token is taken.                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authentications.fromParams**         | **NO**    | Specifies the list of parameters from which the JWT token is extracted.                                                                                                                                    |
```

> | **authorizations**                     | **NO**    | List of authorization objects.                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authorizations**                     | **NO**    | Specifies the list of authorization objects.                                                                                                                                                           |
```

> | **authorizations.requiredScopes**      | **NO**    | List of required scope values for the JWT.                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authorizations.requiredScopes**      | **NO**    | Specifies the list of required scope values for the JWT.                                                                                                                                               |
```

> | **authorizations.audiences**           | **NO**    | List of audiences required for the JWT.                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **authorizations.audiences**           | **NO**    | Specifies the list of audiences required for the JWT.                                                                                                                                                  |
```

### Examples

- Multiple hosts with external authorizers:
```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - api1.example.com
    - api2.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategy:
        extAuth:
          - name: oauth2-proxy
            authentications:
              - issuer: https://example.com
                jwksUri: https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json            
            authorizations:
              - audiences: ["app1"]
          - name: geo-blocker
```

> - One host with jwt:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- One host with JWT:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta2
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-config
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
    - app1.example.com
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategy:
        jwt:
          authentications:
            - issuer: https://example.com
              jwksUri: https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json            
          authorizations:
            - audiences: ["app1"]
```

> - One host with noAuth:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- One host with `noAuth`:
```
